.TH "HEXDUMP" "3" "March 21, 2017" "GNO" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBhexdump\fR
\- dump a block of bytes to standard out in hexadecimal form
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fB#include <libutil.h>\fR
.sp
\fIvoid\fR
.br
.PD 0
.HP 4n
\fBhexdump\fR(\fIvoid\ *ptr\fR, \fIint\ length\fR, \fIconst\ char\ *hdr\fR, \fIint\ flags\fR);
.PD
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
\fBhexdump\fR()
function prints an array of bytes to standard out in hexadecimal form,
along with the ASCII representation of the bytes, if possible.
By default, each line of output will start with an offset count, followed by 16
hexadecimal values, followed by 16 ASCII characters.
.IP "\fIptr\fR" 8n
Pointer to the array of bytes to print.
It does not need to be
\fRNUL\fR-terminated.
.IP "\fIlength\fR" 8n
Number of bytes to print.
.IP "\fIhdr\fR" 8n
Pointer to a
\fRNUL\fR-terminated character string that will be prepended to each
line of output.
A value of
\fRNULL\fR
implies that no header will be printed.
.IP "\fIflags\fR" 8n
Flags for controlling the formatting of the output.
.PP
.RS 8n
.PD 0
.IP "Bits 0-7" 19n
Integer value of the number of bytes to display on each line.
A value of 0 implies that the default value of 16 will be used.
.PD
.IP "Bits 8-15" 19n
Character ASCII value to use as the separator for the hexadecimal output.
A value of 0 implies that the default value of 32
(ASCII space)
will be used.
.IP "\fRHD_OMIT_COUNT\fR" 19n
Do not print the offset column at the beginning of each line.
.IP "\fRHD_OMIT_HEX\fR" 19n
Do not print the hexadecimal values on each line.
.IP "\fRHD_OMIT_CHARS\fR" 19n
Do not print the character values on each line.
.PD 0
.PP
.RE
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ascii(7)
.SH "AUTHORS"
This manual page was written by
Scott Long.
